# Best-Beginner-Acoustic-Guitars---Buying-Tip
<p>Every guitar student should practice with good quality, affordable instruments. The best beginner<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/2020/01/best-choice-products-41in-full-size_17.html" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">&nbsp;best electric acoustic guitar</a>&nbsp;is not necessarily the most expensive instrument. Looking to purchase your first acoustic guitar? Surely you have already read a few online guitar reviews. While reviews can be helpful, they can be overwhelming and lack a holistic, informed perspective. As an instructor, I always say that one's first guitar should accent the player in form, fit and function.</p>
<p><strong>Buying Tip #1</strong></p>
<p><strong>Guitar Materials:&nbsp;</strong>The guitar top material is the most important component of the guitar's body materials. A solid wood top compares much more favorably than a laminate top, as evidenced in many guitar reviews. Guitar tops can be made of various kinds of wood (the top wood), and each wood type has a different effect on the sound of the instrument. Sitka spruce is a popular choice and produces a powerful, direct tone with strong clarity - even when the instrument is played loudly. While more expensive, the Engelmann spruce has a more complex tone than the Sitka spruce, but it also lacks the Sitka's clarity. A good, very affordable top wood option is basswood, which exhibits a warm sound and crisp mid-range.</p>
<p><strong>Buying Tip #2</strong></p>
<p><strong>Body Type:</strong>&nbsp;The&nbsp;<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/2020/01/best-choice-products-41in-full-size_17.html" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">best electric Acoustic guitar</a>&nbsp;comes in a variety of types and sizes. Common types for the best beginner acoustic guitars are jumbo, dreadnought, auditorium and concert. Body type and size determine a guitar's overall tone. Large-bodied guitars, such as the jumbo and dreadnought, produce great power and volume with strong low-end tones. The dreadnought, slightly smaller than a jumbo, is characterized by a "thick waist". While projecting wonderful power and full tone, jumbo and dreadnought guitars are not recommended for small-framed beginner players.</p>
<p><strong>Buying Tip #3</strong></p>
<p><strong>Acoustic-Electric Guitars:</strong>&nbsp;Do you plan on recording or playing where amplification is necessary? Consider an acoustic-electric guitar. It is a fully functional acoustic guitar equipped with an electric pickup, a microphone or a transducer that still produces the acoustic sound you desire. This is an option available on many of the best guitar models.</p>
<p><strong>Buying Tip #4</strong></p>
<p><strong>Price:</strong>&nbsp;You will find decent quality beginner&nbsp;<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">best acoustic guitars</a>&nbsp;starting at under $200. While you will not find a Gibson or Taylor at that price, Epiphone, Takamine, and Yamaha all make very affordable, solid wood top, quality instruments. The guitar reviews will corroborate this.</p>
<p><strong>In Conclusion</strong></p>
<p>Find a guitar that is comfortable to play, select an instrument with a solid wood top, and budget at least $199 for a quality instrument. Following these guidelines will ensure you have a good playing experience, and you will likely be more successful in the long run.</p>
<p>Find more<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">&nbsp;best acoustic guitar buying tips</a>&nbsp;and reviews on my website.</p>
